The word roots is something that's come
up a few times now throughout the first
four chapters of Delt. Sometimes only in
things like soundtrack names and obscure
deltron.com pages branching off of spams
and sweep stakes. It's never explained
what exactly it means besides being
somehow related to the mysterious Eggman
with its prophecy glass showing itself
in the egg's adjacent room. The
ambiencece that plays in Queen's
Mansion's basement
is called Digital Roots, while the song
played in this level of the retro style
Shadow Mantle game is called Bitroots.
Deltum.com/lost
Where the Forest would grow is titled
Roots containing the same prophecy tree
from chapter 4. When clicked on, the
tree plays a chord before eventually
sending you to delturn.com/windows.
Again, connecting roots to the Eggman,
but also attaching itself to this string
of words. Finally, the last place that
the word roots appears in is in a Biblio
encounter, the act that makes you choose
the correct spelling of certain words.
In this specific case, we can work out
that roots is going to be the name of a
future soundtrack, as all of the other
words in Biblio's vocabulary, gallery,
flashback, sword, atrium, and guardian
are all song names. Along with roots,
the words festival and synthesis seem to
also be the names of future tracks.
So, roots is something that's going to
happen in Delt's Prophecy. It also seems
to be closely related to the Eggman as
well as this story that's told by this
organic. Lost where the forest would
grow, the children followed the pointed
tale, the poor children. Okay, sure, the
word seems to be connected to these
things, but what exactly is it? Well,
out of everything, it seems most likely
to be the name of a place. Its Prophecy
Glass depicts some kind of setting with
a very generic house surrounded by two
trees. And based on the Biblio's words,
it's also going to have a soundtrack
named after it. And that takes us to
here, the two places in Deltun whose
soundtrack names are called roots with
[music] some extra word. The first one
is Queen's Basement, a murky dark brown
labyrinth with vines growing everywhere.
The ambience that plays in this area is
called Digital [music] Roots, implying
that this area is only a digital
recreation of the real roots, which
would make sense since Cyberworld is on
a computer. This is also the first
moment in the game in which we spot the
pink and yelloweyed entity known as
Friend. Why do they appear in Digital
Roots? Well, remember that Root seems to
be closely related to this story,
[music] which mentions a pointed tale.
The tale of hell, as it's described in
Delt's Prophecy, is heavily suspected to
belong to this mysterious feline entity
[music] due to a lot of connections
between Noel's glitchy caters game, and
once again, the Eggman. So, if Friend,
the possessor of the pointed tail, has
something to do with this roots area,
which is implied by their connection,
then it would make sense that their face
appears within a digital recreation.
[music] Notice the vines here and the
brown color of the walls. Notice
Spamptonton's infatuation with this
place, a character who wears pink and
yellow glasses. The second place, whose
soundtrack name has the word roots, is
the third board of the Shadow Mantle
video game, which you can immediately
notice is colored the exact same murky
brown as used in Queen's Basement. This
corridor here is also identical in
appearance to the one found in Digital
Roots. The soundtrack for this level is
called Bitroots, implying again that
this is only a rough interpretation of
the real place. This time in an 8-bit
video gamey way. This level is pretty
interesting for several reasons. First
of all, it's the third level of the
Shadow Mantle game, following the first,
which introduces [music] the idea of
becoming stronger to progress, and the
second, which is a rough recreation of
not just the cyber city, but the snow
grave route, complete with a white robed
frost mage that follows us around,
enemies that are turned to frozen
crystals, puzzles that are solved by
using the ice, a bluebird that blocks
our path before being frozen, and a maze
in which we follow the mage until she's
finally used up. This is the third
level, which is now following up
instructions for the snow grave route.
And since board 2 was basically a
play-by-play of what happened in chapter
2, Cyber City, it's not unreasonable to
assume that this board, which takes
place in this rout's location, is also
going to roughly represent what happens
here during the weird route when we
eventually get there. Before we even get
to bitroots, it's notable that we enter
it through a winding alleyway in a
manhole, an almost one for one replica
of the one found exclusively in chapter
2's snow grave route. Of course, this
doesn't make physical sense, but what I
think this is trying to imply is that
the only way to engage in the following
series of events or maybe even enter the
real roots at all is to be on the weird
route by the time we get there. So, with
that said, what happens in level three
of the Shadow Mantel game in this 8-bit
version of Roots? Well, as with the
first two games, it follows the same
gameplay mechanic of leveling up and
getting stronger to progress. This
already seems to reveal that the roots
area, like Cyber City, is going to be a
dark world area. But really, all you do
in this 8-bit Roots is just kill a bunch
of different colorful enemies. Unlike
the last board, which had
representations of Noel and Birdley and
what you were supposed [music] to do
with them, it's just a boring kill
spree. So, is that all it's saying? When
you reach the roots [music] during the
weird route, kill all the different
enemies there before proceeding. But
wait, what are these enemies anyway?
There's one that's surrounded by flowers
that shoots red. Wait, there's a
fishlike enemy that can either be blue
or gray, and killing it destroys the
yellow lizard enemies that are Wait,
there's a singing purple cat enemy right
next to a bright green enemy. Wait.
Oh, these are representations of
hometown NPCs, aren't they? This one is
Asgore, surrounded by flowers and
shooting red lasers that look like the
trident he has in Undertale. This
fishtype enemy is Undyne, who could
become more tanky by putting on metal
armor, and upsets the yellow lizards,
Alfus, if she's killed. These two are
Brady and Caddyy, a purple cat in a room
to the left of a green alligator,
literally adjacent like their houses in
hometown. The singing cat could also
represent the Cat and Heimer father, who
we know sings in the church's choir. But
what about these blue ones, or these
orange ones that shoot fire? What about
the shadowy enemy that copies your
movements, or these white cat-like faces
that charge you down, or the room full
of unmoving white enemies? Are just some
of them lighteners and some of them not?
Well, maybe. But I actually think it's
plausible to argue that all of these
enemies represent lightners. But hold
on, what? What does this even mean? We
just clarified that Roots looks to be a
future Dark World location, colored a
murky brown, overgrown with vines, and
possibly the home of the Tale of Hell.
If we read between the lines, you could
also guess that Roots is some kind of
forest location with the emphasis on
trees, the vines growing in digital
roots, the dirty brown coloration of the
walls, the word roots, which literally
seems to mean tree roots, and finally
the story that mentions Lost where the
forest would grow. With these clues
alone, you might guess that Roots is
supposed to be the shelter's dark world,
as it's secluded in a forest, vines are
growing inside of it, and it seems to be
connected to the story that retells
Des's disappearance, who we know might
live inside of the shelter, and that her
abductor, the tale of hell, might as
well. So, what exactly are Asgore,
Undyne, Alfus, and Caddyy and Brady like
enemies doing here? If they do represent
their real selves, like how the white
cloak and the blue bird represented Noel
and Birdley, then why would they all be
in the shelter? The knight definitely
isn't planning to bring all of
Hometown's residents down there. But
Roots being the shelter's dark world
also doesn't completely add up, as the
Root's prophecy glass doesn't show the
shelter doors between its two trees, but
instead a house, or more specifically a
dog house. Also, in board three, the
section where the Bitroot soundtrack is
playing, the area with the murky brown
coloration, that section is completely
separate from the 8-bit shelter that
they show right after. As the music
stops playing and the exterior and
interior have completely different
colors. So, if the roots location is not
actually the shelter, then where is it?
So, let's ask an interesting question.
What if the layout of Bitroots is
supposed to be a map of hometown? I
already pointed out that the placement
of the rooms with the Brady and Caddyy
enemies seems to be reminiscent of their
houses in Hometown. Not just with how
Caddy is on the left and Brady is on the
right, but also with how these rooms
happen to be the center two of the
topmost row of the map. Coincidentally
accurate to where they are on a map of
hometown. But this isn't the only
coincidence. Far from it. One row down
and all the way to the right is this
room full of unmoving white enemies.
Using Brady and Catty's houses as a
reference point, then when lining this
room up with hometown, it would be the
apartments. Okay, technically that could
make sense with this room. A bunch of
squashed, unmoving enemies, like a bunch
of people living in cramped apartments.
To the right of Brady and Caddyy, the
room with the shadowy enemy lines up
with where the lake would be. The divide
which keeps us on the left side of the
room could represent the uncrossable
lake. And the shadow enemy that copies
our movements could also represent
whatever it is that's making the song on
the other side of the lake. That of
which we hear about at the end of
chapter 4. The very bottom left just has
the room that we enter this level in.
But lining this up with hometown, it
actually aligns with the only exit out
of the town. The room at the very top is
the only one on its row and is also
situated more to the left side. Not only
placed exactly where the dreamer house
is in Hometown, but also being the only
thing at the top of the map. The second
appearance of the singing cat seems at
first not to work, but Toriel, like the
Catenheimer father, does also sing in
the church's choir. Why is it a cat?
Well, for the same reason that Brady's
8-bit sprite is just another lizard,
despite her being an alligator, it feels
as though this entire board is just
trying to imply certain things rather
than just fully give it to us. For
example, if they actually made a unique
alligator enemy for Brady Sprite, it
would be so much easier to figure out
what they were trying to sneakily imply
here, which ruins a lot of the mystery.
It also makes sense from a design
perspective that a lot of the enemy
sprites would simply be recolored or
reused instead of having entirely new
sprites, as it makes it feel a lot more
like an old NES game like they were
clearly going for. Moving on, the Asgore
room is strangely placed on the left
middle, which would be where Icy's Pizza
or the empty plot of land to the left of
Ices is on the hometown map instead of
somewhere in the top right where his
flower shop is. I do have a guess as to
why the Asgore Square would be placed
here, but I'll come back to that later.
Filling in the rest of the gaps to the
right of the Asgore room would either be
Ices or QC's, which has a blue lizard
type enemy. The yellow lizard enemy was
Alphus and the green one was Brady. But
who is this? Well, my best guess is
since this room seems to represent
either Ices or QC's, is either Blue
Bunny, a character given some depth in
chapter 4 concerning Pizza Pants's fake
girlfriend, or the blue ice cube face of
Icy himself and the blue outfits that
the employees wear. To the right of
that, just before the apartments, is a
room that contains nothing but those
white cat faces. Lining this up with
hometown, this room would represent
either Sansa's shop, his house, or both.
Notice how these aggressive cat-like
faces only elsewhere appear in the room
that represents the dreamer house with
the enemy that represents Toriel. This
could be hinting at the relationship
between Toriel and Sans. But what's also
really interesting is that these
sleeping faces only start attacking the
player when the Toriel enemy is killed,
including the ones in the room that
represents both of Sans's places. To me,
this is reminiscent of the promise that
Sans makes to Toriel in Undertale, which
makes him refrain from attacking the
human unless they go too far and kill
Toriel and the rest of the underground.
To the right of the exit of Hometown,
there's a room with fire spitting orange
enemies. Between the hospital and the
police station, I think this room is
supposed to represent the hospital, and
the orange enemies are supposed to be
Rudy, the orange colored monster who's
bedridden inside. This enemy's use of
fire is also something that's not
entirely out of place. As he says to
Noel when they're playing dragon blazers
together after the weird route that she
should use fire shock instead of ice
shock against the ice palace boss.
Thematically, Rudy as a character also
seems to embody the opposite kind of
energy to his wife Carol, a character
who was ice cold all around. To the
right of that would be the library where
we find the version of Undyne without
her armor. Why here? Well, funnily
enough, Undy has technically been in
this area of hometown before in the
short little traffic jam section of
chapter 2. A stretch probably, but it
could have been what made them place the
Undy enemy type in this area. The very
right of this row would be the school
represented by a room devoid of enemies
and a line of orange trees. The sprite
is clearly a hometown tree with the neon
orange outline in the softer orange
center. It's an interesting detail to
include in this, isn't it? as they could
have used anything to blockade the path
forward. And if we're still assuming
that this layout works with the map of
hometown, then there is a wall of trees
to the right of the school.
Now, not everything lines up perfectly.
For instance, the Alphas Undy room is
placed to the left of Caddyy and Brady's
rooms, which leaves only the holiday
house for the square. And if this board
is foreshadowing a future chapter, then
why would Undy be on the board at all
when we know she's trapped inside of the
shelter? We also had to make some pretty
stretchy arguments for some of the other
squares, like for the blue lizard and
fire enemies, the placement of armorless
undy on the library square, the second
cat being on the dreamer house, and
that's not even mentioning that
buildings like the police station and
the flower king don't even seem to be
represented on this board. But we have
to keep in mind that Board 2, even
though this one was an adaptation of the
events that play out in Chapter 2, Cyber
City, the layout of this level is not at
all accurate to the real Cyber City. It
more just implies that it's a
recreation, which could also be the case
for board 3 and that it's just an
implied map of Hometown. This could
explain, for instance, why Undyne is
here in this version, even though we
know that she's trapped in the shelter.
Not everything here has to be taken
literally, nor do I expect it to be.
Undying is simply just a good clue to
get us to recognize Alfus. So, going
back to the other things that we know
about Roots, does this hometown idea
work? Well, Roots definitely has
something to do with trees, something
that is, of course, a very prevalent
thing in Hometown. The orange hometown
trees even appear in the bit roots. So,
the trees in the roots prophecy glass
and the 8-bit hometown trees could be
the same thing. But what about friend,
the dog house, and the story that
involves lost where the forest would
grow? The tale of hell doesn't seem to
live somewhere in Hometown, but instead
somewhere in one of hometown's forests.
Lost where the forest would grow, the
children followed the pointed tale. So,
what if these two versions of Roots, Bit
and Digital, are two entirely separate
sections of a connected area? Bitroots
is the hometown part with its NPCs, and
Digital Roots is in the forest with the
vines and where we see the face of
friend, the tale of hell. If we
remember, there's a corridor in Bitroots
that I pointed out is strikingly similar
to the one found in Digital Roots. So
similar in fact that the same tiles, not
just the same color, the same files from
digital roots are used to create the
corridor in Bitroots. In Bitroots, this
corridor is found by breaking through
the orange hometown trees and is the
exit of the section. In Digital Roots,
it's the first corridor that you walk
through and entering. [music] So it
would make sense if this corridor
divided by a wall of trees, no less, is
the connection between these two parts
of Roots, town and forest. So what does
this mean? If Bitroots is an implied
recreation of hometown, then does that
mean that part of the roots location
somewhere we're going to visit in a
future chapter is a hometown dark world?
And if so, then what exactly is the
situation in which all of hometown
becomes enshrouded in darkness? Is it
perhaps a consequence of the full-blown
roaring with darkness taking over
everything due to the opening of too
many dark fountains? Well, no. I don't
think it would be. In fact, I don't
think we have to look any further than
chapter 5 to figure out why Hometown
would become a dark world. What do we
know about chapter 5's dark world? It's
described by the Lord of the Hammer to
be a field of pink and gold, a vast
garden shred with an inferno of
jealousy. This dark world also seems to
be one that's created by Asgore. Not
only because of his suspicious monologue
in which he reveals his possession of a
blackshard and a plan to bring his
family back together, but having yet
another lightener strike a dark world is
clearly foreshadowed in chapter 4 with
Suz's creation of a dark world and the
fact that it changes due to her own
unique memories and wants. Now, at
first, I think we all immediately assume
that this dark world will take place
inside of Asgore's flower shop. Not at
all an unreasonable assumption, as the
word garden, Asgore's association with
this dark world, and the suspicious
double doors in Asgore's flower shop
seem to fit easily together to result in
a Flower King dark world. However, the
more we look over all of the evidence
for Asgore's dark world, not only does
the Flower King dark world theory start
to fall apart, but another location
jumps out as being far more likely.
First of all, let's go over Asgore's
plan. This dark world isn't going to be
created for no reason. There's a scheme,
one that seems to be aiming to draw
Asgore's shattered family back together.
Specifically, he mentions that he's
going to settle this once and for all.
Toriel will see that he just wanted to
protect everyone. And not only will
Toriel see this, but everyone will.
Putting this into the context of a
flower king dark world, it just doesn't
make much sense. Why would Toriel,
someone who is inexurably closed off
against Asgore, step one single foot
into Asgore's flower shop willingly?
That already is a hole. But then you
take into account that Asgore says that
he's going to show everyone. But then
what about the word garden being used to
describe chapter 5? Garden has to refer
to flowers. There's no getting around
that. And a vast garden seems to be very
obviously hinting towards the
flower-filled flower king. But the
flower king is not the only place during
chapter 5 in which an abundance of
flowers will be present. We know that
chapter 5, taking place on a Sunday, is
going to be the day of the festival, a
townwide carnival that completely
transforms Hometown's appearance.
Balloons, a ferris wheel, but most
notably of all to be included in the
townwide decorations, flowers. When
talking to Icewolf at the beginning of
chapter 4, he says that a large order of
flowers has gone out to Asgore in order
to decorate the town for the festival.
And what do we see being wrapped around
the town hall's columns? Flowers. And we
know that the festival is going to be
the time in which Asgore creates his
dark world since the inferno of jealousy
that's going to possess this dark world
is very likely going to be stoked by
Sans taking toal to the festival.
Something that Asgore is probably going
to bear witness to to his absolute
dismay. Finally, the lord of the hammer
describes chapter 5's dark world as
being a field of pink and gold. Remember
that we confirmed before that Root seems
to be the home of the tale of hell or
the shadowy feline entity that seems to
be the origin of the pink and yellow
eyes. Chapter 5 being the field of pink
and gold then makes a lot more sense if
we end up visiting the tale of hell's
home roots in this chapter. And while
this visual here seems to show falling
flower petals, it could also just as
easily be autumn tree leaves. So with
Asgore's plan demanding a dark world
that traps Toriel and everyone in
hometown, the garden hint working well
with a flower decorated festival and a
field of pink and gold making sense for
the roots location, then chapter 5's
dark world looks to be a
hometown/festival dark world where Roots
is. This could also explain why Asgore's
room in Bitroots along with all of his
flowers lines up to be where Icy's pizza
is. Maybe during the festival, this
empty plot of land to the left of Ices
is where Asgore sets up a flower stand.
The aggressive cat faces that only
appear in Toriel and Sansa's rooms could
also represent the jealousy that's going
to possess Asgore's dark world. But what
about Asgore's flower shop? We kind of
glossed over the fact that even though
the dark fountain can't be created in
there, there's still a locked double
door, a back door to the shop, a
basement, seven colored flowers
upstairs. So, what I think is that the
flower king is just going to be another
area of this dark world. The festival
bit is the area where we can continue
the weird route. The forest bit is going
to be a secret area where we fight the
secret boss, and it probably will be the
tale of hell. And the flower king is
going to be the final area. Of course,
there could also be other subsections
that split up the dark world. In
Asgore's piece of the prophecy, it
mentions that he's going to become
trapped in some kind of asylum. And
while this could be referring to his
state of mind during the dark world, it
could also be a physical asylum. And it
might just be the flower king,
especially the locked double doors at
the back of the shop. Something that's
heavily explained in Delturn chapter 4
is the dark world doors. How they work,
how they separate different dark worlds,
how they represent locked doors in the
light world. Because of how in-depth
they go in explaining how exactly they
work, they'll definitely come into play
again in future dark worlds. and we'll
probably find the one that represents
the locked doors of Asgore's flower shop
in chapter 5. So, that part at least can
be explained. However, I'm not exactly
sure how the basement of the flower king
as well as the back door come into all
of this. They definitely don't point out
their existence for no reason. So,
honestly, who knows? In relation to
this, I'm also really wondering what
exactly Asgore's plan to fix his family
is beyond just creating a hometown dark
world. And what exactly beyond just the
intrusive inferno of jealousy is going
to trap Asgore in this asylum? It seems
like Asgore is planning to put on a bit
of a show, a performance that'll prove
to Toriel and the rest of Hometown that
he was quote unquote just trying to
protect everyone. But what this entails,
how a dark world helps in this, and what
he's even trying to prove is so hard to
predict that I'm just going to leave
these questions alone for now. So, let's
instead talk about the second half of
Roots, the hidden forest location where
the heroes will see the tale of Hellte
crawl. It's heavily implied that this
location is going to be underground,
mirroring digital roots with its rampant
dissension, its dirty brick walls, vines
growing all over the place, the roots of
trees poking their way into it. It could
be the shelter's dark world just as well
as it could be the basement of some
forest hidden demonic doghouse.
Whichever the case, we know that it's
the home of a certain cat and the place
where the heroes, like the children,
will be lured by its pointed tail. So,
it's a secret area hidden behind trees,
one that houses a dark, hostile
creature. It's an area whose digital
rendition had a secret boss, one that
wore pink and yellow glasses and gave us
an item that has strangely high defense
and a resistance against cat attacks.
Chapter 5 is the last chapter of the
shadow crystal mission as Sham only
needs one more crystal to finish their
creation. So, by all reasonable doubt,
friend, the pink and yellow eyes, the
tale of hell seems to be the best
contestant for being chapter 5's shadow
crystal boss. But does this make sense?
Suzie fought chapter 4 secret boss alone
and got a powerful axe. Chris fought
Spamptonton Neo alone and got a powerful
weapon from the knight. And now with the
shadow crystal mission ending, it seems
like chapter 5 is the last chapter in
which Rousece will get to fight a secret
boss alone, as well as get a powerful
scarf to complete the trifecta of
weapons. It also can't be forgotten that
thematically these bosses fit with the
hero that soloed them with Spamton Neo
being a puppet reaching to heaven and
Gerson being Suz's mentor teaching her
how to use her healing magic. So does
friend really work thematically as
Rousec's solo fight? It's a hard
question to answer for sure. Rousece has
been the first one to bring up the
smiling pink and yelloweyed cat in his
dark world explanation cutscene. And
since the hero seeing the tale of hell
is part of the prophecy, Rousece will
have memorized this encounter and will
be expecting it when it comes. He also
has somewhat of an affinity towards
cats. But what does friend have to do
with Rousei outside of that? So far, the
face has only appeared in places where
Chris is solo besides the one in some
random dark room in chapter 4. And since
the tale of hell might be the culprit of
Deess's disappearance, then they'd be
much more emotionally attached to Chris
or even Noel, who are presumably one of
the poor children that followed the
pointed tale and were witness to the
capture of death. Of course, we also
don't know the nature of this entity,
whether they'll be friendly or hostile,
and if Rousece doesn't already have some
relationship with this darker, or if
he's going to build one throughout
chapter 5. For all we know, he could.
So, could friend work as Rouseci's solo
secret boss fight? Well, why not? The
last thing I want to talk about in
relation to this theory is how it
applies to the weird route. When it
comes to chapter 5, we already know that
the weird route to some capacity is
going to progress in this chapter.
Firstly, the ending of chapter 4 is
different on the weird route where
instead of Chris preparing to jump out
their window, maybe to follow Suzie,
they instead get a call from Carol who
tells them that Noel is looking forward
to seeing Chris at the festival.
Secondly, delturn.com/chapter5
is a page that's all about the weird
route. There are five numbers on this
page representing the five chapters with
the one and three invisible due to the
lack of weird route progression in these
chapters. The size of the numbers also
seems to be indicative of how much weird
route related stuff is in the chapter.
Clicking on each of the numbers also
redirects to a game asset that has
something to do with the weird route.
D.G. when clicking on chapter 2,
the little red square on chapter 4,
and a slowed down version of the
hometown theme when clicking on the five
h. GG.
[music]
The five, as we can already see, is not
invisible, nor is it small. It's pretty
much just a middling size between the
two and the four. So, we can expect that
in chapter 5's weird route, there won't
be anything as crazy as chapter 2, but
certainly more than the minimal amount
that we got in chapter 4. But there's
actually something really puzzling about
this page, and that's the number three.
Even though it's invisible, and rightly
so due to the chapter's complete lack of
weird route, it has the same font size
as the two. Now, chapter 1, which also
didn't have any weird route and is
invisible as well, is the smallest of
the five chapters, as you would expect.
So, why exactly is chapter 3's number
just as big as chapter 2, when there
isn't even a way to progress the weird
route? Well, my best guess is that it's
because of the Shadow Mantle game, a
game that not only gives instructions on
how to begin the Forbidden Path, but
also foreshadows and maybe even
instructs future parts of the weird
route. that of which of course is done
in the 8-bit roots. Clicking on the
three also redirects us to ma.gg, the
sound effect played by the shadow mantle
holder or as they fly off screen. So
this confirms many things at once.
First, bit roots is definite
foreshadowing for the weird route.
Second, not only is bit roots
foreshadowing, but it's such an
important teaser to the point where it's
inflated the three to be as big as the
two. Lastly, the shadow mantle holder
seems to have something to do with the
weird route. So, let's re-evaluate
Bitroots from the perspective of the
weird route. We established that this
part of Roots is hometown's dark world,
complete with a bunch of its NPCs like
Asgore, Alfus, Toriel, Brady, and Caddy.
Like boards one and two, Bitroots has
the same gameplay mechanic of getting
stronger by sorting enemies until we can
slash through the orange hometown trees.
But there's something a bit weird about
this. Where is Noel? The white cloak. In
chapter 2, we put a lot of effort into
leveling up Noel, getting her strong
enough so that she could use Snowgrave,
a devastatingly powerful spell. This is
all recreated in the Shadow Mantle games
Glacier level. But at the end of all of
that, after we followed her through the
maze, the white cloak disappears, and
we're given the words, "She was used
up." She then doesn't reappear in the
game's third level, implying that by
this point, we no longer have a use for
Noel to continue this forbidden path.
But this strikes me as inaccurate to how
things are progressing in the real weird
route. First of all, after following
Noel to the manhole, this isn't the end
of her use like the glacier level
implies. Instead, she actually comes
back to save us from Spamptonton Neo
again by using her powerful ice spells.
In chapter 4, we then completely derail
the house scene to re-equip the thorn
ring back on Noel. And by the end of the
chapter, Noel is asking to go to the
festival with Chris. If you ask me, this
does not seem as though Noel is quote
unquote used up after chapter 2, like
the Shadow Mantel game suggests. If
anything, it seems like she'll be with
us during the festival, just in time for
darkness to cover the town and for the
both of us to be together in Roots, to
pick up where we left off. But we also
can't gloss over the fact that the
Shadow Mantle game doesn't just say that
Noel is used up, but that were used up,
too. So maybe these two things are
referring to what happens a lot later in
the game. Or maybe this is just some
random creepy dialogue that's just
creepy for the sake of being creepy. But
that doesn't take away from the fact
that the white cloak is definitely
absent from Bitroots when it seems like
she's definitely going to be there with
her thorn ring alongside us.
And what about the fact that in
Bitroots, the path forward for the weird
route seems to involve literally killing
enemies that represent lightners like
our parents? If this is somehow going to
be taken literally, then how the hell is
the five on deltrain.com/chapter
5 not enormous? Lastly, is one of the
game's most ambiguous villains up until
this point. Even more so, I'd say, than
the pink and yelloweyed tale of hell.
They're just yet another shadowy
boss-like enemy that seems to live in
the shelter. a growing list at this
point. So, let's tackle each of these
things at a time. First, what's going on
with Noel? Why does chapter 2 build her
up to be Chris's tool [music] to destroy
anyone in their path, then seemingly
drop her when it comes to the next steps
of the weird route? Well, what I think
is that by the end of chapter 2, Noel
has leveled up enough to the point where
we don't have to focus on her stats
anymore, and instead, we have to start
leveling up Chris. We got her most
powerful weapon, unlocked her most
powerful spell, forfeited a lot of exp
for Chris in favor of Noel, and made
sure that Noel keeps her thorn ring on
by the time of chapter 5's Dark World.
She's basically like Paula from
Earthbound, where when you level her up
enough, she ends up unlocking more
powerful spells. Coincidentally, one of
Paula's most powerful spells is psi
freeze. And not only are we leveling up
Noel in chapter 2, but we're
transforming her to be a much more
bolden version of herself. no longer
shy, weak, and timid, but now bold,
strong, and aggressive. So, in chapter
5, Noel is no longer going to be Chris's
tool, but instead a suitable fighting
partner that'll stay by their side and
do devastating damage with her ice
spells. But remember that Glacier as
well as Bitroots are instructions, not
just showcases of the weird route. In
this context, Bitroot seems to be
telling us to never freeze enemies with
Noel as she'll [music] steal the
experience. Instead, slash those enemies
with Chris's weapon and level them up in
preparation for the endgame. And what
better place to start farming exp than
in a hometown dark world filled with
strong lightener enemies that are sure
to drop tons of exp. But that then
brings up another problem because, as
we've discussed, at least some of the
enemies in this part of the dark world
are going to be lightners at the mercy
of a rogue soul, just like Birdley was
in chapter 2. So, if the enemies that
we're farming exp off of are really our
friends and family from the lightw
world, then how is the five of
deltron.com/chapter
5 not bigger? Well, this could be
because Chris as well as Suzie and
Rousece are still incapable of actually
slaying enemies with their physical
attacks. Besides the Titan spawns, which
literally have no will other than to
fight, every single dark world enemy
that we encounter runs away from us the
moment their HP gets low. However, even
though they run away, we still get
stronger from just fighting these
enemies. Killing them is not a
requirement to get stronger. So maybe
the five is only a middling size between
the two and the four because even though
we'll be encountering our hometown
friends in battle, we'll only be scaring
them off as opposed to straight up
murder or freeze. However, this does
bring up the interesting question of
what'll happen if you do freeze them.
And what's the point of leveling up
Chris? Well, besides some very late game
stuff, it could be preparation for the
battle with the Tale of Hell. the secret
boss fight of chapter 5. Remember that
in Bitroots, it's only after we clear
the area of enemies that we cut through
the orange trees and proceed presumably
to the Tale of Hell's home. Once there,
we'll then engage in the secret tale of
hell fight, not as a solo Rouse, but as
Noel and Chris, ready to take the final
shadow crystal. So, why is Iam in
chapter 3 so important to the weird
route? Well, maybe it's not because of
the character themselves or even the
instructions given in the Shadow Mantle
game, but because it's the chapter where
we get both the Shadow Mantle and the
Blackshard, tools that will help us
greatly against chapter 5's shadowy
secret boss. This means that Friend is
going to be strong enough to still be an
entire boss fight against Noel's Thorn
Ring, Eyeshock, and Snow Grave, and
Chris's Shadow Mantle, Blackshard, and
stat increases from the previous
section. Since the tale of hell is a
shadow monster, the gimmick of the fight
is probably going to revolve around
collecting TP, something that becomes a
lot harder in dark fights. Snow grave is
100% TP. So, even though it does a lot
of damage, reaching that threshold might
be near impossible in a battle like
this, so it's probably a good idea to
save attention max going into chapter 5.
Of course, we also don't know what color
this fight is going to turn our soul, if
any. Lastly, considering that friend is
apparently this strong, then how do we
feel about Rousece going up against this
secret boss alone in the normal route? I
mean, the fight will probably be
completely different between the two
roots. Maybe Rousece will try to pacify
the boss or something, but it's still
really interesting to think about. And
that, ladies and gory,
or at least as far as I'm currently
willing to take it, because you could
totally go a lot further and delve into
tons of different aspects of the game
with it. I really think that this
theory, even at its roots, has very
crucial implications for the future of
the game, especially for the chapter
we'll be playing next year, chapter 5.
Of course, I don't think that every
single thing I talked about is
absolutely guaranteed, but there's
certainly nothing in here that I think
couldn't happen. I am really looking
forward to the next newsletters just to
see if we can get any other sort of new
evidence for chapter 5 before it comes
out. Toby has said that he's not going
to reveal anything about what kind of
chapter chapter 5 is, but I know that he
won't be able to resist giving us at
least some amount of teasers. I also
think it's quite possible that as we get
close to chapter 5's release,
Spamptonton sweep stakes will erupt
again with new pages, so I can't wait
for that. We'll see if I have to end up
pushing this theory even further due to
new evidence. But until then, thanks for
watching this video. This was certainly
a longer one, but I had a lot of fun
working on it. So, I hope that you guys
had a lot of fun watching it. But that's
it for me, and I'll see you guys in the
next video.
By the way, my reactions to chapter 4
are finally uploaded. These ones to my
second channel at youtube.com/goldpro2.
Okay. Bye.