[music]
>> There is a third route in Deltarune and
all of the information needed to access
it is already in the game. I know that
often times I use attention grabbing
thumbnails and titles paired with
relatively down-to-earth theories, but
this isn't like that. This might truly
be the most important [music] video I've
ever made, if I'm right at least,
because I truly believe that the weird
route is not Deltarune's genocide route
equivalent. The weird route is not the
forbidden path. The idea that the secret
hidden route we have to find has already
been found is legitimately a trick used
by Toby Fox [music] to lower our guard.
There is something else we have yet to
find.
And as I said, it's already entirely
been explained to us and it's about to
happen in chapter six.
And you want to know who's at the center
of it? Image Friend.
Yeah, I was wrong the entire time. Image
Friend is in fact important, but he's
not going to present himself to us. He's
waiting for us at the end of the
forbidden path. If I'm right, and again,
if I'm right, you're going to want to
listen to this because you are going to
need to prepare a third save file.
Deltarune has two routes. While some
call them regular route and the weird
route, they've now been dubbed by the
game itself side A and side B. The
shadow crystals have been revealed to us
as glass shards containing the power of
lost dreams. As we know, once defeating
Mew Mew in chapter five, we have
collected all the shadow crystals we
need for Spamton do something
interesting with. It seems as if this
interesting thing is purifying them,
creating the pure crystal, an item
that's been in the code for a long time,
described as the shadow purified by the
cat. Similarly, there is an interesting
item that you're able to craft in
hometown, the twisted sword, described
as a strange blade. It requires the
aforementioned pure crystal as well as
the thorn ring. Giving it to different
party members results in unique dialogue
as we can see in the code. Susie says,
uh looks bad. Ralsei says it's kind of
like a spiral. Noelle says it's kind of
scary.
The twisted sword currently has no light
world counterpart similar to the black
shard and is rivaled in strength only by
the black shard itself. Because of the
strange amount of importance given to
this item with it requiring two
extremely story important items as well
as its ominous lack of description, many
took to theorizing about what the
twisted sword could be. Perhaps Catti is
the cat given that she might be a sort
of mage in the dark world and will use
magic to purify the shadow crystals.
Maybe Noelle will give us the thorn ring
back and at the end of the weird route
we'll need the twisted sword. With the
release of chapter 5 though, all of
these theories have been deconfirmed. As
of right now, there is only one way that
we are going to be able to obtain the
items needed to craft the twisted sword
and that is chapter 2 aborted weird
route. Currently, the only way to
actually obtain the thorn ring is to
obtain it in chapter 2 and then quit the
weird route. Rather than giving it to
Noelle, keep it in your inventory and
continue onwards. And that's the thorn
ring. The pure crystal will seemingly
require all the shadow crystals.
However, that can only be obtained by
playing through all of the dark worlds
regularly and avoiding the weird route
as we completely skip the flower kingdom
in chapter 5's weird route and therefore
cannot fight Mew Mew to get her crystal.
Meaning that to craft the twisted sword,
you need to start and leave the weird
route after obtaining the thorn ring and
then gather all of the shadow crystals.
Judging by chapter 6's snowy castle town
sprites in the code, it seems very
likely that we'll visit castle town in
chapter 6 at some point, get the shadow
crystals purified and finally be able to
craft the twisted sword. But I want you
to realize something. The shadow crystal
quest is not at all tied to the twisted
sword itself. As Shawn has told us
they'll be able to do something very,
very interesting with the crystals but
has never asked us to retrieve the thorn
ring. I highly doubt that Shawn will
reveal that we have to craft the twisted
sword before going, oops, I guess I
should have told you that four chapters
ago. Guess it's time to replay the game
in its entirety to get the Thorn Ring.
That's just comically stupid. Instead, I
think that the regular route is simply
not going to involve the Twisted Sword
whatsoever. And I think that the Twisted
Sword requires you to actually discard
the Pure Crystal, meaning that whatever
thing we're planning on doing with the
Pure Crystal will not happen. Crafting
the Twisted Sword requires you to
abandon the weird route, and it will
require you to abandon the Shadow
Crystal Quest. To use up both Noelle and
the Fun Gang all just to craft this
strange blade. And I believe that's
because the Twisted Sword is the key to
a secret third route hidden in between
side A and B. The third route, or its
true name as I'll get to in a minute, is
the big twist Toby Fox is planning for
chapter 6. We know there's no weird
route, and I highly doubt without a
video like this most people will assume
that there's even anything after the
regular route, but I truly believe that
Toby is planning on a second weird
route-esque twist. This time by hiding
this hidden route behind the crafting of
the Twisted Sword. But how could I even
come to this conclusion, and what would
it lead to? Well, it has already been
spelled out for us.
Chapter 3's Mantle mini-game is the key
to all of this and has been a secret
explanation as to how to access the
third route this entire time.
What exactly is the point of what we see
on screen in the Mantle mini-game? I
think it's kind of surprising how little
anyone has really spoken about it,
especially because
well, it kind of correlates to nothing
in the game so far.
What's so very interesting about the
Mantle mini-game is that it has the feel
of the weird route while also being a
mandatory piece of the Shadow Crystal
Quest. Okay, not actually mandatory, but
it is directly told to you that it is
mandatory and without it the Knight is
quite difficult to the point that you
would think it's mandatory.
Anyways, the Mantle mini-game has been
assumed to be the beginner's
introduction to the weird route for
quite some time. Let's quickly go over
what actually happens in the Mantle
mini-game, and I urge you not to skip
because even if you do know what happens
generally, I'm going to recontextualize
it and it's important to have everything
fresh in your mind.
When you start, you're in the original
board from Tenna's game. There is no
music until you locate a sword, at which
point you're able to walk around and
slay monsters. Monsters that look
awfully similar to Undertale characters.
Monsters with two horns that throw red
arrows, blue fish, yellow lizards, and
golden flowers. You get stronger by
leveling up until you eventually find
yourself strong enough that you're able
to cut down trees. In hidden rooms
throughout the Mantle mini-game, which I
won't bring up again, Image Friend's
face appears, as well as dialogue asking
you if you are having fun yet.
By cutting down trees, you're able to
continue into an area you're not meant
to go and find the ice key.
In the second Mantle mini-game, this
same thing happens again for a little
while. You get a sword, the song from
before starts playing, albeit slowed
down this time, and you continue gaining
power until you're able to use a raft to
take yourself to the ice palace.
Before that, it's worth mentioning that
Tenna's 8-bit sprite talks about basing
his game on this stupid old thing,
saying that here and there strange
things keep popping up.
At the ice palace, we use the ice key
and meet up with a mage in a white robe.
A monster leaves a message for us. The
forbidden path began with ice magic. We
then meet up with what is obviously
representative of Noelle and use her to
shoot ice blasts at foes, turning them
into ice blocks just like in chapter 2.
After blasting a blue bird with ice, we
find ourselves in a maze that requires
us to follow Noelle. Upon reaching the
end, we see a door with red horns
outside of it. The ice key was used up.
And she was used up. It's very important
to understand when it says that Noelle
was used up, she disappears from your
party and never returns. In this dark
room, we're able to find Eram's secret
hiding place, and [music] we get the
shelter key. After this, the dialogue
Chris was used up, although they do
return in the next game. Either way, the
game turns off.
The final board again has Chris
returning with the full party in the
blue city.
A staircase leads us to one last sword,
which we use to kill both Susie and
Ralsei before cutting down the nearby
fence leading us to digital roots. We
slaughter all the monsters here. I don't
need to bring this up because it's been
discussed before, but many people
believe that the layout of this dungeon
represents hometown itself. Down to the
room with the mysterious black deer even
being where the lake would go. And if
it's true that Noelle has gone down a
similar path to Dess, who knows what
this could even mean.
After getting strong enough, you cut
down trees that look like the ones in
hometown and meet Tenna.
8-bit Tenna's dialogue here is very
absurd because it seemingly has nothing
to do with the point of the mantel mini
game. I believe that it's actually not
absurd whatsoever and is instead an
ominous teaser to the truth, the
individual behind all of this.
"How did things turn out like this?
Keeping poor Toriel all locked up. If
only he hadn't abandoned me, my old
partner.
I was going to put him on TV, make him a
star. All he had to do was tell me what
his little secret was, his secret to
being a big shot. Just when I had
finally gotten him to sign that deal, he
had to take a phone call. But when he
picked it up, his face turned pale and
he ran out of the room.
When I picked it up, nobody was there.
That little freak ripped me off. I wish
they never brought that laptop home."
After this, you enter the shelter, which
Chris desperately tries to fight you
over. Chris will not under any
circumstances let you enter the shelter.
They do not want you knowing what's in
there, but we do and there we fight
Eram. Interestingly, Eram comments on
Chris collecting the shadow crystals.
"That's why you're searching for them,
aren't you? The shadow crystals." We
then battle Eram and afterwards they say
they liked seeing the flickering red in
Chris's eyes and that the knife grows
dull without play. Eram says that both
of us have work to do.
What I just described to you with just a
tiny bit of recontextualization is the
entirety of what is going to happen in
chapter 6's hidden third route. The
point of the mantel mini game is fun.
Friend asks us if we're having fun. Eram
asks, "Isn't it fun, Chris, playing
around like this?" When Susie asks if
we're enjoying the game, we can say, "Of
course, games are fun." Eram implies
Chris is having fun fighting. In a
sense, I do believe this is very much
meant to tie back to Undertale's idea of
fun. Us swinging our sword around and
chopping down monsters left and right to
get stronger.
So, where is this all going?
You might be saying that the mental
mini-game is meant to be the
introduction to the weird route, like I
said.
After all, in the sweepstakes ARG page,
the number three is just as big as the
number two. And while chapter one's page
says not applicable, chapter three's
says not applicable, but combining that
with the fact that we look at the
forbidden path, which starts with ice
magic, and it's a pretty safe assumption
that we're being introduced to the steps
to complete the weird route. That's the
whole point of the mental mini-game.
Right?
Except I 100% disagree. The mental
mini-game doesn't line up with what
happens in the weird route whatsoever,
not even a little. Both in terms of
sequential order and the implications of
our actions. No, I believe that the
mental mini-game is meant to tell us how
to achieve our true goal, how to play
the third route, the one neatly tucked
in between side A and side B.
The route that nobody actually knows
about. See, in the code, the term route
is used in a few places. After
collecting three shadow crystals, a flag
in Seam's shop is set to true, that's
called normal route. Across chapter two,
flags relating to the weird route are in
fact called weird route and side B
{underscore} route. There is also
another use of the term route. The
mental mini-game in the code, oddly
enough, is called the sword route in
many places. And that is exactly what I
believe the proper name of the third
route is.
If side A is the regular route and side
B is the weird route, then the third
route, the one in between those two, is
the sword route.
So then, outside of the naming in the
code as sword route, how do we know that
the sword route in chapter 3 is meant to
hint to the proposed secret sword route
that revolves around the twisted sword
itself? Well, let's start at the
beginning. The sword route demonstrates
that the route doesn't truly begin until
we get the sword. Prior to that point,
we're not actually playing the original
game where you can make all the choices.
We are in a world that we have zero
effect on.
To tackle the weird route accusations,
there are a number of things that don't
line up. First off, I don't see why the
weird route would be called the
forbidden route whatsoever. Forbidden by
who? For so long we've assumed that the
weird route is the secret second route
that uses Noelle's powers of video game
glitches to clip outside the bounds of
not reality, but specifically the
narrative, that we'd break Deltarune by
pushing it too hard at its seams,
leading to the destruction of the idea
that our choices don't matter. The weird
route is, in a sense, forbidden because
that which demands Deltarune exists
wouldn't allow us to have such control
outside of this hyper-specific scenario.
It's forbidden because it's not even a
route whatsoever. It's not the left path
compared to the right path, it's
something entirely different.
Except the aforementioned individual
that demands Deltarune exists is Gaster.
And as we've seen, side B is very much
not forbidden whatsoever. In the ending
of chapter 5's weird route, we see a
character's POV of a monitor that says,
"Insert chapter 7 side B." That's not
forbidden. Specifically allowing it to
happen, having a slot open for it to
happen, is not forbidding it. If it's
side B, it could mean that in Gaster's
penumbra shadow land, Deltarune exists
as a sort of floppy disk. Or perhaps
it's more like a vinyl record, hence the
scratching noises. Either way, the
simple fact that whatever contains
Deltarune itself asks for side B and
makes a place for it means that I
wouldn't really consider the weird route
to be forbidden whatsoever. They accept
that it could happen. We even get the
achievement complete chapter X without
issue if we do the weird route. There
was, if I recall correctly, scrapped
dialogue from Gaster post chapter 4 that
would have implied he knew about the
weird route going down. If a path is
specifically laid out for you, I fail to
see how by any means it would be
considered forbidden.
Not only that, but the order of events
in the sword route is completely
misaligned with what we know happens in
the weird route. From this point on, by
the way, I'm going to be calling the
8-bit mental mini-game not sword route
because that's a little confusing. I'm
going to be calling it the mental
mini-game, but understand that it is
called the sword route in multiple
places in the code, and I'm making the
suggestion that the sword route is the
name of Deltarune's third route
entirely.
Anyways,
not only that, but the order of events
in the mental mini-game is completely
misaligned with what we know happens in
the regular route. The assumption that
lots of people have is that the ice
palace begins with a representation of
chapter 2, with Noelle using her ice
magic on all the enemies. Then when she
and Kris are used up, that's
representative of the chapter 5 lake
scene. And then in the city when we kill
Susie and Ralsei, that's representative
of us no longer needing them after
chapter 2.
I personally feel like that's kind of
baseless considering every one of those
assumptions is flawed in some way, and
there's a much better understanding
right in front of us. First off, in
terms of ordering, the ice palace
beginning with chapter 2's weird route,
and then jumping to chapter 5, and then
jumping back to show us leaving Susie
and Ralsei in the dust, which then leads
us to the mysterious roots area which
has no meaning or explanation
whatsoever,
yet, just feels wrong. If this was the
intended reading, I imagine we'd start
in the city, kill Susie and Ralsei,
we don't need them after chapter 2, then
go to the ice palace, meet up with
Noelle and start the weird route, go
through the door, the lake scene, get
used up, and then go to digital roots.
But that's not at all what happened.
Not only that, but if the scene of Kris
and Noelle entering the red door was
meant to represent the chapter 5 weird
route lake scene, why does Noelle get
used up upon entering the door, but Kris
persists? Noelle is, in a sense, being
used to access that door. But both of
them drowned in the lake, and while I
don't think that either of them are
dead, likely in some strange scary
nowhere land, there is no way to
interpret Noelle as the one who died
first, dragged forwards by Chris, who
then becomes used up afterwards. As a
matter of fact, Noelle is beginning to
force Chris forwards in the lake scene,
saying that they can't say stop like
they used to. The weird route at this
point seems to solely be about Noelle,
with her at the forefront of everything.
I do not believe that she's been used
the sense that she's simply not going to
be around anymore. The weird route's
ending will absolutely feature her and
Chris together. We also have to
recognize that the implication is that
when Noelle is used up, she never shows
back up, but when Chris is used up, they
continue to show up in the next scene.
So, how would Chris be used up if it
means going away, unless the concept of
being used up isn't exactly tied with
them dying, but something else?
This just doesn't line up with the
mental mini-game's portrayal of both
Chris and Noelle being used up at what
seems to be the gates to hell or
whatever.
The scene in the city of killing Susie
and Ralsei, representing the fact that
we don't need them after chapter two,
that's completely false, as we continue
on with them in chapters three and four.
Killing them in the cyber city makes no
sense thematically.
There's also all sorts of tiny
supplemental things that don't align
with the weird route, too. Why does
Chris spend the sword route getting
stronger? Only through getting stronger
are we able to complete the boards, and
yet in the weird route, Noelle is the
one to get stronger, never Chris. Not
only that, but there is no
resemblance of cutting down trees to
access anything that is hidden, that
never happens. And I also wouldn't say
that the weird route aligns with the
Undertale idea of having fun by slicing
down enemies left and right, which the
weird or the mental mini-game sort of
calls to, in my opinion, at least
thematically. Image friend constantly
asking you if you're having fun, and
talking about how the fun part is the
killing and the violence and the
fighting, that tells me that there's
some link to the idea of Undertale and
its portrayal of violence as some fun
activity you experience personally.
There's also the fact that everything
after killing Susie and Ralsei, the root
section and then the entering of the
shelter, seemingly is not going to
happen in chapter 7. I have a very hard
time believing that we are somehow going
to find our way from the lake with
Noelle back into hometown so that Chris
alone can enter the shelter. That just
does not seem at all like where the
story is heading. There's also the fact
that Eramus specifically comments on
Chris trying to collect the shadow
crystals. However, that's an
impossibility in the weird route. So if
Eramus was trying to guide us towards
the weird route, why would they even
mention the shadow crystals in the first
place? We cannot get the final shadow
crystals in the weird route. Unless, of
course, whatever Eramus' plan is,
whatever Eramus wants for us to
understand, does involve the shadow
crystals.
So if all of that is true, what is this
meant to represent then?
The forbidden path began with ice magic.
That is absolutely true. But the
forbidden path is not the weird route,
it's the sword route. It begins by using
Noelle to freeze all the enemies. And
once that's finished, she is used up. We
no longer need Noelle for the route ever
again. That's why Noelle never appears
in the future of the mental mini-game.
The red headband door and the collection
of the shelter key, I believe, is meant
to represent us obtaining the twisted
sword itself. After all, the shelter is
likely what is associated with the
phrase roots. We know in the roots room
in chapter 4, that's where the NPC talks
about lost where the forest would grow.
Doesn't that seem like the kind of place
we would access if we have a sword that
allows us to cut down trees? And what
does Ralsei say about the twisted sword?
It looks like a spiral, as if the
twisted sword is made of vines like a
thorn bush. The twisted sword, yet
another plant, is the key to accessing
the roots. The roots that image friend
is so clearly tied to. But why would
Chris be used up when they get the
shelter key? Well, take a look Look the
status effect that the twisted sword
has. Trance. By equipping the twisted
sword to Chris, we're basically finding
a way for them to equip the thorn ring
and for us to fully control them. The
scene of killing Susie and Ralsei in the
city, interestingly the colors here are
a cool blue. You want to know what other
city has a cool blue tone to it? Castle
Town. I believe this is implying that
the continuation of the sword route will
be in chapter six. In the beginning,
when we obtain the twisted sword, Chris
will be used up because we will have a
full control over them in a trance. We
will immediately have to kill Susie and
Ralsei. After all, the stairs after the
scene lead us to the the bit roots room,
the one shaped like hometown. We kill
Susie and Ralsei in Castle Town likely
in a similar way to how the sword route
plays with no actual combat system, but
instead a sort of overworld Zelda style
sword swing and then we return to
hometown to carry out our killing spree
and get stronger. One extra possible
stretchish thing I'd like to add, we see
in the city section of the sword route a
singular golden cactus. In the original
board this was based off of the cut
Tenna city board, there is no golden
cactus. So why would Toby have added a
golden cactus to this board
specifically?
Well, I believe that that this is a tiny
detail meant to point us towards
understanding that this is supposed to
be Castle Town. It's a tiny golden
cactus you can actually take damage
from, aka impale yourself with. Do you
want to know something else with a
golden element that someone is afraid to
impale themselves on? Susie's bed.
Again, that's sort of a stretch, but I
do feel like mentioning it.
So to continue the sword route after
returning to the light world and killing
the hometown NPCs to get stronger, we
are able to access the shelter. Inside
we'll find
image friend. See Tenna's whole story
about Spamton signing the contract,
becoming a big shot. Who is it Spamton
signed the contract with? Who is it that
could have reached out to him
originating from a laptop or computer
game? I know who it is and I bet you do
too. I apologize to the friend community
because it is image friend, the same one
watching us on the sword route, asking
us if we're having fun. Image friend is
waiting for us in the shelter, in the
roots, or alternatively Eram, though I
believe they are likely one in the same.
Friend is absolutely important, but I
never understood how he'd fit inside A
or B. Side B seems to be separating
itself from Deltarune's world entirely,
and side A, well, I just don't see how
we'd have time for him. But it makes
perfect sense now. The strange things
that keep popping up here and there, the
world that was built over the original
game. Image friend belonged to whatever
world existed before Deltarune. Image
friend keeps popping up here and there,
appearing in places he shouldn't be. I
believe also it's very likely that if
this theory were true, if the sword
route really is the secret third route,
it's also likely the only route in which
we'll enter the shelter proper, as in
starting from the light world.
Chris will not let us enter the shelter.
We know that this is very true. I don't
see any reason to expect Chris to
eventually change their minds,
especially with the ending of chapter 3
in the original sprite that was cut that
they would look and smile at us. I think
Chris will never let us see inside, and
unless we enter a different version of
the shelter from the roaring, or or if
hometown is a dark world itself, I don't
see any way that we'll actually see
what's really inside there. Why would we
see it on the weird route where we are
now, I god, I don't know how far from
hometown we are. And why would we see it
on the pacifist route when Chris really
doesn't want it to happen. And so,
[music] if it's true that the sword
route is the third route, this is where
we finally make that decision. This is
where we finally take control, where our
choice finally matters, where we enter
the shelter. Chapter 6, of course, is
the secret Gaster lore dump chapter.
Chapter 6, how could we have not seen
it? But not in the regular route, only
in the sword route, where we defy
whatever work Gaster's done on the
Deltarune world, give Chris the twisted
sword, they were always destined to
have. Turn them into hero's sword, a
vessel for our will, who will determine
fate with their blade, and who will lay
waste to the enemies. We'll enter the
shelter, earn our first move that
actually defies fate, and we'll learn
what happened, what all of it means.
We'll face image friend likely in
combat, and we'll understand how the
Deltarune world is all composed. The
only reason that Toby would be so so
almost laughing about how how how image
friend is being teased right now, how
sort of chapter 5 made so many
allusions, and made so many jokes about
friend, playing on the people's
expectations. The only way that I could
see him doing that is not if oh oh
friend is just the chapter 6 secret
boss.
What if he is the boss of the sword
route? This secret hidden thing that
nobody is going to be expected to find.
This [music] ridiculously difficult
boss, similar to the mantle mini game,
that's hidden in the shelter.
This is the Deltarune lore dump that
we've been waiting for, that we've been
talking about. How could it possibly fit
in the main route, or the weird route?
It doesn't. I find it increasingly
likely that Deltarune will go the more
unique route of featuring an ending that
satisfies the game's overall themes and
meaning, while avoiding traditional lore
dumps and possibly character arc
conclusions in such a satisfying and
sort of return to the status quo way. I
don't believe we're going to rescue Dess
from the knight armor, save the day, and
restore balance to the world, and watch
as everyone lives happily. I believe
that we're going to probably see
something
maybe even a little open to
interpretation. But that original game,
the one where we make the choices, it
still exists underneath it all. Just
like Gaster, it lives in a layer in
between. And by taking a little from
side A and a little from side B,
we can create an item that lets us see
in between the lines.
So, if you believe me,
if I were you,
I would create a third save file. I
would create it, I would go and get the
twisted I would get the the thorn ring,
I would get all the shadow crystals, and
I would sit and wait for chapter 6 to
release. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I am. I
would I would love to be wrong because
then I'd look like a dummy again and
everybody could laugh. But, I don't
really think I am. I mean,
I kind of think that chapter 6
is the sword route. I believe it's
Deltarune's second big genocide route
twist, that there is another one. I
believe After all After all, why would
the weird route be the one that lets us
defeat freedom? That lets us defy the
choices? Isn't the whole point that your
choices don't matter? Whether you choose
thing one or thing two, it both ends the
same way. Don't you think that side B is
going to be that same thing? Side A or
side B, it makes no difference, we get
to the same conclusion.
But, there is
something in between them.
And that is the sword route.
My name is SpookyDude. Please make sure
to like and subscribe for more Deltarune
theories.
Uh, but I do want to add a little bit of
a conclusion, a little bit of a a final
word, so to speak. Um, I do think that
it is worth mentioning that there are
two little tiny jumps in logic that you
kind of have to make here. First of all,
um,
there is
something to be said for how in the code
the twisted sword has trance down, or at
least it did. Um, but it it's not
entirely known how that works because in
game it says nothing about trance down,
and all we know is that it has the
ability called trance. And so, I I think
that that's easy to just write off, you
know what I mean? Except that Toby Fox
probably didn't want to put
trance on the sword knowing that it
would probably mean, "Oh, we we take
full control of Chris or something like
that." I don't think Toby Fox would want
this route to be seen to be to be so
known about before it happens.
Um,
and so, yeah, that that could be one
explanation for it. That's really the
only thing I I think there might have
been another thing that sort of flies in
the face of the sword route. But, now I
can't think of it. So,
so yeah, so
I I guess that's the only real thing you
have to accept is that the twisted sword
having the effect trance down
um was sort of a a a slight lie or or
something related to how it had to
function in the code or something like
that. I don't know. But in the game, we
don't know what it will do except we
know it has the status effect trance,
and we know that it is extremely strong,
and we know that it persists in the dark
and light world, which is partially why
I think you're going to be able to take
the sword and then take it from the dark
world into the light world and, you
know, the twisted sword is
more part of the reveal that Deltarune
as a whole is somehow fake. Hometown and
dark world, they're all one in the same,
and it was whatever Gaster built on top
of the original game or whatever you
like to say. Maybe image friend belongs
to that original game, you know? Maybe
maybe that's what's going on there.
Maybe image friend appearing in Noelle's
game, maybe it is all entirely correct.
Image friend is tied to the concept of
fun and sort of randomness, and he
appeared in Noelle's game because he was
part of that original game, and you
know, when Tenna's has things popping up
here and there where they shouldn't be,
that's image friend. And that's why he's
hiding in the darkness. That's why he's
associated with roots because the sword
route is the route in which we will
explore the roots. And that is pretty
much all I have to say. Now, I can say
my name is Spooky Dude. Thank you so
much for watching. Please make sure to
like and subscribe, and I will see you
next time. Tell me in the comments below
if you agree with me or if you think
that I have gone totally off the deep
end.